RHDEVDOCS-6486 builds 1.5 release notes (#95905)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-release-notes-1-5.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * about/ob-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
*[id="ob-release-notes-1-5_{context}"]
= Release notes for {builds-shortname} 1.5

{builds-shortname} 1.5 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.16, 4.17, 4.18, and 4.19.

[id="new-features-1-5_{context}"]
== New features

The following sections highlight what is new in {builds-shortname} 1.5.

* With this update, {builds-operator} deploys Shipwright v0.16 components.

> * With this update, you can use the optional `.spec.nodeSelector`value with `shp` CLI to specify which nodes {builds-shortname} should run on.

Reviewer: Hi @deerskindoll, 
This `node selector` is used to run the user's build pods, not the builds operator pod.

{builds-shortname} should be replaced with "build run pods"

> * With this update, you can use the optional `.spec.nodeSelector`value with `shp` CLI to specify which nodes {builds-shortname} should run on.

Reviewer: Also there's another change in the epic. 
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/BUILD-987
Have updated the release text there.

Author: done

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
// * about/ob-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
*[id="ob-release-notes-1-5_{context}"]
= Release notes for {builds-shortname} 1.5

{builds-shortname} 1.5 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.16, 4.17, 4.18, and 4.19.

[id="new-features-1-5_{context}"]
== New features

The following sections highlight what is new in {builds-shortname} 1.5.

* With this update, {builds-operator} deploys Shipwright v0.16 components.
* With this update, you can use the optional `.spec.nodeSelector` value with `shp` CLI to specify which nodes build run pods should run on.
* With this update, you can use the optional `--scheduler-name` flag with `shp` CLI to specify the scheduler to use for scheduling build run pods.
* With this update, two buildpacks `ClusterBuildStrategy` options are available for {builds-shortname}:
+
** `buildpacks` strategy
** `buildpacks-extender` strategy
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `buildpacks-extender` strategy is compatible with the experimental buildpacks `extender` lifecycle phase. You can use this strategy e.g for builds based on Node.js. However, the `extender` phase does not support Quarkus or any other Java-based builds. For such builds, you should use the `buildpacks` strategy instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `buildpacks-extender` strategy is compatible with the experimental buildpacks `extender` lifecycle phase. You can use this strategy, for example, for builds based on Node.js. However, the `extender` phase does not support Quarkus, or any other Java-based builds. For such builds, use the `buildpacks` strategy instead.
```

For more information about the support scope of Red{nbsp}Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
====
* With this update,
the `source.git.depth` parameter was added to the `Build` resource to specify the depth of the Git history.
The default value is 1 and no history is cloned.
This is the fastest way to clone a Git repository
and is applicable for all cases where your build logic doesn't rely on Git history.
+
Any value greater than 1 will create a clone with the specified depth. For a full Git history clone, set the depth to 0.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you specify a commit SHA as a revision, the full history is always cloned before this commit is checked out.
====

[id="fixed-issues-1-5_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

The following list highlights fixed issues in {builds-shortname} 1.5.

* Before this update, the build controller had permission to modify `CustomResourceDefinitions`. This caused the controller to have excessive permissions, resulting in a minor security risk. With this update, the issue is fixed.

> * Before this update, there was an issue affecting the build controller and requeuing of reconciliation requests. If the {builds-operator} failed to reconcile the `ShipwrightBuild` or the `SharedResource` objects but the status update of the build controller succeeded, build controller was not requeued for reconciliation despite the previous failure. With this update, the issue is solved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if the {builds-operator} failed to reconcile the `ShipwrightBuild` or the `SharedResource` objects, but the status update of the build controller succeeded, build controller was not requeued for reconciliation despite the previous failure. With this update, the issue is solved.
```
